## Description

**NOTE**: Currently, the SHA1 algorithm has been removed from general use by Google, and, if being used, needs to be whitelisted on a project basis by Google and will also, therefore, require a Google Cloud support contract.

DNSSEC algorithm numbers in this registry may be used in CERT RRs. Zone signing (DNSSEC) and transaction security mechanisms (SIG(0) and TSIG) make use of particular subsets of these algorithms. The algorithm used for key signing should be a recommended one and it should be strong.

The algorithm used for key signing should be a recommended one and it should be strong. When enabling DNSSEC for a managed zone, or creating a managed zone with DNSSEC, the user can select the DNSSEC signing algorithms and the denial-of-existence type. Changing the DNSSEC settings is only effective for a managed zone if DNSSEC is not already enabled. If there is a need to change the settings for a managed zone where it has been enabled, turn
DNSSEC off and then re-enable it with different settings.

## Remediation

### From Command Line

1. If it is necessary to change the settings for a managed zone where it has been enabled, `DNSSEC` must be turned off and re-enabled with different settings. To turn off DNSSEC, run the following command:

```bash
gcloud dns managed-zones update ZONE_NAME --dnssec-state off
```

2. To update zone-signing for a reported managed DNS Zone, run the following command:

```bash
gcloud dns managed-zones update ZONE_NAME \
--dnssec-state on \
--ksk-algorithm KSK_ALGORITHM \
--ksk-key-length KSK_KEY_LENGTH \
--zsk-algorithm ZSK_ALGORITHM \
--zsk-key-length ZSK_KEY_LENGTH \
--denial-of-existence DENIAL_OF_EXISTENCE
```

Supported algorithm options and key lengths are as follows.

```
Algorithm         KSK Length    ZSK Length
---------         ----------    ----------
RSASHA1           1024,2048     1024,2048
RSASHA256         1024,2048     1024,2048
RSASHA512         1024,2048     1024,2048
ECDSAP256SHA256   256           256
ECDSAP384SHA384   384           384
```
