## Description

It is recommended that uniform bucket-level access is enabled on Cloud Storage buckets.

It is recommended to use uniform bucket-level access to unify and simplify how you grant access to your Cloud Storage resources.

Cloud Storage offers two systems for granting users permission to access your buckets and objects: Cloud Identity and Access Management (Cloud IAM) and Access Control Lists (ACLs). These systems act in parallel - in order for a user to access a Cloud Storage resource, only one of the systems needs to grant the user permission. Cloud IAM is used throughout Google Cloud and allows you to grant a variety of permissions at the bucket and project levels. ACLs are used only by Cloud Storage and have limited permission options, but they allow you to grant permissions on a per-object basis.

In order to support a uniform permissioning system, cloud storage has uniform bucket- level access. Using this feature disables ACLs for all Cloud Storage resources: access to Cloud Storage resources then is granted exclusively through Cloud IAM. Enabling uniform bucket-level access guarantees that if a Storage bucket is not publicly accessible, no object in the bucket is publicly accessible either.

## Remediation

### From Google Cloud Console

1. Open the Cloud Storage browser in the Google Cloud Console by visiting: [https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser) 
2. In the list of buckets, click on the name of the desired bucket.
3. Select the `Permissions` tab near the top of the page. 
4. In the text box that starts with `This bucket uses fine-grained access control...`, click `Edit`. 
5. In the pop-up menu that appears, select `Uniform`. 
6. Click `Save`. 

### From Google Cloud CLI

Use the on option in a uniformbucketlevelaccess set command:

```bash
gsutil uniformbucketlevelaccess set on gs://BUCKET_NAME/
```

## Prevention

You can set up an Organization Policy to enforce that any new bucket has uniform bucket level access enabled. Learn more at: [https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/setting-org-policies#uniform-bucket](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/setting-org-policies#uniform-bucket)

## Default Value: 

By default, Cloud Storage buckets do not have uniform bucket-level access enabled.
