cis_v200/docs/cis_v200_1_15.md, before:

## Description

It is recommended to rotate API keys every 90 days.

Security risks involved in using API-Keys appear below:

- API keys are simple encrypted strings
- API keys do not identify the user or the application making the API request
- API keys are typically accessible to clients, making it easy to discover and steal an API key

In light of these potential risks, Google recommends using the standard authentication flow instead of API keys. However, there are limited cases where API keys are more appropriate. For example, if there is a mobile application that needs to use the Google Cloud Translation API, but doesn't otherwise need a backend server, API keys are the simplest way to authenticate to that API.

Once a key is stolen, it has no expiration, meaning it may be used indefinitely unless the project owner revokes or regenerates the key. Rotating API keys will reduce the window of opportunity for an access key that is associated with a compromised or terminated account to be used.

## Remediation

API keys should be rotated to ensure that data cannot be accessed with an old key that might have been lost, cracked, or stolen.

### From Console

To find the listed API Keys with creation date

1. Login to [APIs & Services\Credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
2. In the section `API Keys`, Click the `API Key Name`. The API Key properties display on a new page.
3. The page will display the `Creation date`
4. For every `API Key` exceeded the threshold `90` days, ensure below
5. Click **REGENERATE KEY** to rotate API key from the top section of the page.
6. Click Save.

Commit message:

Change section 1, 2,6 and add query sql_instance_using_private_ip

cis_v200/docs/cis_v200_1_15.md, after:

## Description

API Keys should only be used for services in cases where other authentication methods are unavailable. If they are in use it is recommended to rotate API keys every 90 days.

Security risks involved in using API-Keys appear below:

- API keys are simple encrypted strings
- API keys do not identify the user or the application making the API request
- API keys are typically accessible to clients, making it easy to discover and steal an API key

In light of these potential risks, Google recommends using the standard authentication flow instead of API keys. However, there are limited cases where API keys are more appropriate. For example, if there is a mobile application that needs to use the Google Cloud Translation API, but doesn't otherwise need a backend server, API keys are the simplest way to authenticate to that API.

Once a key is stolen, it has no expiration, meaning it may be used indefinitely unless the project owner revokes or regenerates the key. Rotating API keys will reduce the window of opportunity for an access key that is associated with a compromised or terminated account to be used.

## Remediation

API keys should be rotated to ensure that data cannot be accessed with an old key that might have been lost, cracked, or stolen.

### From Console

To find the listed API Keys with creation date

1. Login to [APIs & Services\Credentials](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
2. In the section `API Keys`, Click the `API Key Name`. The API Key properties display on a new page.
3. Click **REGENERATE KEY** to rotate API key from the top section of the page.
4. Click Save.
5. Repeat steps 2,3,4 for every API key that has not been rotated in the last 90 days.

**Note**: Do not set `HTTP referrers` to wild-cards (* or *.[TLD] or .[TLD]/) allowing access to any/wide HTTP referrer(s) Do not set `IP addresses` and referrer to `any host (0.0.0.0 or 0.0.0.0/0 or ::0)`

### From CLI:

There is not currently a way to regenerate and API key using gcloud commands. To'regenerate' a key you will need to create a new one, duplicate the restrictions from the key being rotated, and delete the old key.

1. List existing keys.
```bash
gcloud services api-keys list
```
2. Note the `UID` and restrictions of the key to regenerate.
3. Run this command to create a new API key. <key_name> is the display name of the new key.
```bash
gcloud alpha services api-keys create --display-name="<key_name>"
```
Note the `UID` of the newly created key
4. Run the update command to add required restrictions. Note - the restriction may vary for each key. Refer to this documentation for the appropriate flags.
[https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/alpha/services/api-keys/update](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/alpha/services/api-keys/update)
```bash
gcloud alpha services api-keys update <UID of new key>
```
1. Delete the old key.
```bash
gcloud alpha services api-keys delete <UID of old key>
```
