## Description

In order to prevent unnecessary project ownership assignments to users/service- accounts and further misuses of projects and resources, all `roles/Owner` assignments should be monitored.
Members (users/Service-Accounts) with a role assignment to primitive role `roles/Owner` are project owners.
The project owner has all the privileges on the project the role belongs to. These are summarized below:
- All viewer permissions on all GCP Services within the project
- Permissions for actions that modify the state of all GCP services within the project
- Manage roles and permissions for a project and all resources within the project
- Set up billing for a project
Granting the owner role to a member (user/Service-Account) will allow that member to modify the Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy. Therefore,grant the owner role only if the member has a legitimate purpose to manage the IAM policy. This is because the project IAM policy contains sensitive access control data. Having a minimal set of users allowed to manage IAM policy will simplify any auditing that may be necessary.

## Remediation

### From Console

Create a required log metric:

1. Login to GCP console and navigate to [Logs-based Metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics).
2. Click **CREATE METRIC**.
3. Select `Metric Type` as `Counter`, enter `Log metric name` and `Units` to 1.
4. Clear any text in the `Build filter` field and add below text
```bash
(protoPayload.serviceName="cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com")
AND (ProjectOwnership OR projectOwnerInvitee)
OR (protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.action="REMOVE"
AND protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.role="roles/owner") OR (protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.action="ADD"
AND protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.role="roles/owner")
```
5. Click **CREATE METRIC**. The logs display based on the filter text entered by the user.

Create a required alert policy for the log metric::

1. Identify the newly created metric under the section [User-defined Metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics).
2. Click the 3-dot icon in the right most column for the desired metric and select **Create alert from metric**. A new page opens.
3. Fill out the alert policy configuration and click Save. Choose the alerting threshold and configuration that makes sense for the user's organization. For example, a threshold of zero(0) for the most recent value will ensure that a notification is triggered for every owner change in the project.
4. Configure the desired notifications channels in the section Notifications.
5. Enter `Alert name` and click **Save**.

### From Command Line

Create a required log metric:
   - Use the command: gcloud beta logging metrics create.
   - Reference for [Command Usage](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/beta/logging/metrics/create).

Create a alert policy for the log metric:
   - Use the command: gcloud alpha monitoring policies create.
   - Reference for [Command Usage](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/alpha/monitoring/policies/create).

**Note**:

1. Project Ownership assignment to a service account does not send any invites. SetIAMPolicy to role/owneris directly performed on service accounts.
2. Project ownership assignments for a user cannot be done using the gcloud utility as assigning project ownership to a user requires sending, and the user accepting, an invitation.
