## Description

To support principle of least privileges and prevent potential privilege escalation it is recommended that instances are not assigned to default service account `Compute Engine default service account` with Scope `Allow full access to all Cloud APIs`.

Along with ability to optionally create, manage and use user managed custom service accounts, Google Compute Engine provides default service account `Compute Engine default service account` for an instances to access necessary cloud services. `Project Editor role` is assigned to `Compute Engine default service account` hence, This service account has almost all capabilities over all cloud services except billing. However, when `Compute Engine default service account` assigned to an instance it can operate in 3 scopes.

```
1. Allow default access: Allows only minimum access required to run an Instance (Least Privileges)
2. Allow full access to all Cloud APIs: Allow full access to all the cloud APIs/Services (Too much access)
3. Set access for each API: Allows Instance administrator to choose only those APIs that are needed to perform specific business functionality
expected by instance
```

When an instance is configured with `Compute Engine default service account` with Scope `Allow full access to all Cloud APIs`, based on IAM roles assigned to the user(s) accessing Instance, it may allow user to perform cloud operations/API calls that user is not supposed to perform leading to successful privilege escalation.

## Remediation

### From Console

1. Go to the VM instances page by visiting: [https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instances).
2. Click on the impacted VM instance.
3. If the instance is not stopped, click the `Stop` button. Wait for the instance to be
stopped.
4. Next, click the `Edit` button.
5. Scroll down to the `Service Account` section.
6. Select a different service account or ensure that `Allow full access to all Cloud APIs` is not selected.
7. Click the `Save` button to save your changes and then click `START`.

### From Command Line

1. Stop the instance:
  ```bash
  gcloud compute instances stop <INSTANCE_NAME>
  ```
2. Update the instance:
  
  ```bash
  gcloud compute instances set-service-account <INSTANCE_NAME> --service- account=<SERVICE_ACCOUNT> --scopes [SCOPE1, SCOPE2...]
  ```

3. Restart the instance:
  
  ```bash
  gcloud compute instances start <INSTANCE_NAME>
  ```

### Default Value

While creating an VM instance, default service account is used with scope `Allow default access`.