## Description

It is recommended that a metric filter and alarm be established for Virtual Private Cloud(VPC) Network Firewall rule changes.

Monitoring for create or update firewall rule events gives insight to network access changes and may reduce the time it takes to detect suspicious activity.

## Remediation

### From Console

Create the prescribed log metric:

1. Go to `Logging/Logs-based Metrics` by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics) and click "CREATE METRIC".
2. Click the down arrow symbol on the `Filter Bar` at the rightmost corner and select `Convert to Advanced Filter`.
3. Clear any text and add:
```bash
resource.type="gce_firewall_rule"
AND (protoPayload.methodName:"compute.firewalls.patch"
OR protoPayload.methodName:"compute.firewalls.insert"
OR protoPayload.methodName:"compute.firewalls.delete")
```
4. Click `Submit Filter`. Display logs appear based on the filter text entered by the user.
5. In the `Metric Editor` menu on the right, fill out the name field. Set `Units` to `1` (default) and `Type` to `Counter`. This ensures that the log metric counts the number of log entries matching the advanced logs query.
6. Click `Create Metric`.

Create the prescribed Alert Policy:

1. Identify the newly created metric under the section `User-defined Metrics` at [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics).
2. Click the 3-dot icon in the rightmost column for the new metric and select `Create alert from Metric`. A new page displays.
3. Fill out the alert policy configuration and click `Save`. Choose the alerting threshold and configuration that makes sense for the user's organization. For example, a threshold of zero(0) for the most recent value ensures that a notification is triggered for every owner change in the project:
```bash
Set `Aggregator` to `Count`
Set `Configuration`:
- Condition: above
- Threshold: 0
- For: most recent value
```
4. Configure the desired notifications channels in the section `Notifications`.
5. Name the policy and click `Save`.

### From Command Line

Create the prescribed Log Metric:
- Use the command: gcloud logging metrics create

Create the prescribed Alert Policy:
- Use the command: gcloud alpha monitoring policies create
