## Description

GCP Access Transparency provides audit logs for all actions that Google personnel take in your Google Cloud resources.

Controlling access to your information is one of the foundations of information security. Given that Google Employees do have access to your organizations' projects for support reasons, you should have logging in place to view who, when, and why your information is being accessed.

## Remediation

### From Google Cloud Console

#### Add privileges to enable Access Transparency

1. From the Google Cloud Home, within the project you wish to check, click on the Navigation hamburger menu in the top left. Hover over the 'IAM and Admin'. Select `IAM` in the top of the column that opens.
2. Click the blue button the says `+add` at the top of the screen.
3. In the `principals` field, select a user or group by typing in their associated email address.
4. Click on the `role` field to expand it. In the filter field enter `Access Transparency Admin` and select it.
5. Click `save`.

#### Verify that the Google Cloud project is associated with a billing account

1. From the Google Cloud Home, click on the Navigation hamburger menu in the top left. Select `Billing`.
2. If you see `This project is not associated with a billing account` you will need to enter billing information or switch to a project with a billing account.

#### Enable Access Transparency

1. From the Google Cloud Home, click on the Navigation hamburger menu in the top left. Hover over the IAM & Admin Menu. Select `settings` in the middle of the column that opens.
2. Click the blue button labeled Enable `Access Transparency for Organization`

## Default Value

By default Access Transparency is not enabled.
