## Description

The `log_min_duration_statement` flag defines the minimum amount of execution time of a statement in milliseconds where the total duration of the statement is logged. Ensure that `log_min_duration_statement` is disabled, i.e., a value of `-1` is set.

Logging SQL statements may include sensitive information that should not be recorded in logs. This recommendation is applicable to PostgreSQL database instances.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Go to the Cloud SQL Instances page in the Google Cloud Console by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances).
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance where the database flag needs to be enabled.
3. Click `Edit`.
4. Scroll down to the `Flags` section.
5. To set a flag that has not been set on the instance before, click `Add item`, choose the flag `log_min_duration_statement` from the drop-down menu and set a value of `-1`.
6. Click `Save`.
7. Confirm the changes under `Flags` on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. List all Cloud SQL database instances using the following command:

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```

2. Configure the `log_min_duration_statement` flag for every Cloud SQL PosgreSQL database instance using the below command:

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch <INSTANCE_NAME> --database-flags log_min_duration_statement=-1
```

**Note**: This command will overwrite all database flags previously set. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance; any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").

### Default Value:

By default `log_min_duration_statement` is `-1`.