## Description

It is recommended that a metric filter and alarm be established for Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) changes.

It is possible to have more than one VPC within a project. In addition, it is also possible to create a peer connection between two VPCs enabling network traffic to route between VPCs.

Monitoring changes to a VPC will help ensure VPC traffic flow is not getting impacted.

## Remediation

### From Console

Create the prescribed log metric:

1. Go to `Logging/Logs-based Metrics` by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics) and click "CREATE METRIC".
2. Click the down arrow symbol on `Filter Bar` at the rightmost corner and select `Convert to Advanced Filter`.
3. Clear any text and add:

```bash
resource.type=gce_network
AND (protoPayload.methodName="beta.compute.networks.insert"
OR protoPayload.methodName="beta.compute.networks.patch"
OR protoPayload.methodName="v1.compute.networks.delete"
OR protoPayload.methodName="v1.compute.networks.removePeering" OR protoPayload.methodName="v1.compute.networks.addPeering")
```

4. Click `Submit Filter`. Display logs appear based on the filter text entered by the user.
5. In the `Metric Editor` menu on the right, fill out the name field. Set `Units` to `1` (default) and `Type` to `Counter`. This ensures that the log metric counts the number of log entries matching the user's advanced logs query.
6. Click `Create Metric`.

Create the prescribed alert policy:

1. Identify the newly created metric under the section `User-defined Metrics` at [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics).
2. Click the 3-dot icon in the rightmost column for the new metric and select `Create alert from Metric`. A new page appears.
3. Fill out the alert policy configuration and click `Save`. Choose the alerting threshold and configuration that makes sense for the user's organization. For example, a threshold of 0 for the most recent value will ensure that a notification is triggered for every owner change in the project:

```bash
Set `Aggregator` to `Count`
Set `Configuration`:
- Condition: above
- Threshold: 0
- For: most recent value
```

4. Configure the desired notifications channels in the section `Notifications`.
5. Name the policy and click `Save`.

### From Command Line

Create the prescribed Log Metric:
- Use the command: gcloud logging metrics create

Create the prescribed Alert Policy:
- Use the command: gcloud alpha monitoring policies create
