## Description

It is recommended that, user options database flag for Cloud SQL SQL Server instance should not be configured.

The user `options option` specifies global defaults for all users. A list of default query processing options is established for the duration of a user's work session. The user options option allows you to change the default values of the SET options (if the server's default settings are not appropriate).

## Remediation

## From Console

1. Login in to [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances)
2. Select the SQL Server instance for which you want to enable to database flag.
3. Under **Configuration** section
4. Scroll down to the `Database flags` section. Click on **Edit Configurations**
5. In the edit page, navigate to **Flags and Parameters** section
6. Click the X next `user options` flag shown
7. Click Save to save your changes.
8. Confirm your changes under Flags on the Overview page.

**Note:** Any changes to the database flag values, may require your instance to be restarted

## From Command Line

1. List all Cloud SQL database Instances

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```

2. Configure the required database flag for every Cloud SQL SQL Server database instance using the below command.

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch [INSTANCE_NAME] --clear-database-flags
```

**Note:** This command will overwrite all database flags previously set. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags you want set on the
instance; any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals
sign ("=").
