## Description

The same SQL query can be executed in multiple ways and still produce different results. The PostgreSQL planner/optimizer is responsible to create an optimal execution plan for each query. The *log_planner_stats* flag controls the inclusion of PostgreSQL planner performance statistics in the PostgreSQL logs for each query. Default value for *log_planner_stats* flag is off.

The *log_planner_stats* flag enables a crude profiling method for logging PostgreSQL planner performance statistics which even though can be useful for troubleshooting, it may increase the amount of logs significantly and have performance overhead.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to GCP console and navigate to [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/).
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance for which the database flag needs to be enabled.
3. Click **EDIT**.
4. Scroll down to the *Flags* section.
5. Click **ADD FLAG**, choose the `log_planner_stats` from the drop-down menu, and set to `off`.
6. Click **SAVE**.
7. Confirm the changes under Flags on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. List all Cloud SQL database instances using the following command

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```
2. Configure the *log_planner_stats* database flag for every Cloud SQL PostgreSQL database instance using the below command

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch INSTANCE_NAME --database-flags log_planner_stats=off
```

**Note**
- This command will overwrite all previously set database flags. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance. Any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
- Configuring the above flag does not require **restarting** the Cloud PostgreSQL instance.