## Description

PostgreSQL can create a temporary file for actions such as sorting, hashing and temporary query results when these operations exceed work_mem. The *log_temp_files* flag controls logging names and the file size when it is deleted. Configuring *log_temp_files* to *0* causes all temporary file information to be logged, while positive values log only files whose size is greater than or equal to the specified number of kilobytes. A value of *-1* disables temporary file information logging.

Default value for *log_temp_files* flag is *-1*.

## Rationale

If all temporary files are not logged, it may be more difficult to identify potential performance issues that may be due to either poor application coding or deliberate resource starvation attempts.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to GCP console and navigate to [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/).
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance for which the database flag needs to be enabled.
3. Click **EDIT**.
4. Scroll down to the *Flags* section.
5. Click **ADD FLAG**, choose the `log_temp_files` from the drop-down menu, and set to `0`.
6. Click **SAVE**.
7. Confirm the changes under Flags on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. List all Cloud SQL database instances using the following command

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```
2. Configure the *log_temp_files* database flag for every Cloud SQL PostgreSQL database instance using the below command

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch INSTANCE_NAME --database-flags log_temp_files=`0`
```

**Note**
- This command will overwrite all previously set database flags. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance. Any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
- Configuring the above flag does not require **restarting** the Cloud PostgreSQL instance.