## Description

Enabling the *log_lock_waits* flag for a PostgreSQL instance creates a log for any session waits that take longer than the alloted *deadlock_timeout* time to acquire a lock. Default value for *log_lock_waits* flag is off.

## Rationale

The deadlock timeout defines the time to wait on a lock before checking for any conditions. Frequent run overs on deadlock timeout can be an indication of an underlying issue. Logging such waits on locks by enabling the *log_lock_waits* flag can be used to identify poor performance due to locking delays or if a specially-crafted SQL is attempting to starve resources through holding locks for excessive amounts of time.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to GCP console and navigate to [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/).
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance for which the database flag needs to be enabled.
3. Click **EDIT**.
4. Scroll down to the *Flags* section.
5. Click **ADD FLAG**, choose the `log_lock_waits` from the drop-down menu, and set its to `on`.
6. Click **SAVE**.
7. Confirm the changes under Flags on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. List all Cloud SQL database instances using the following command

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```
2. Configure the *log_lock_waits* database flag for every Cloud SQL PostgreSQL database instance using the below command

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch INSTANCE_NAME --database-flags log_lock_waits=on
```

**Note**
- This command will overwrite all previously set database flags. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance. Any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
- Configuring the above flag does not require **restarting** the Cloud PostgreSQL instance.