## Description

Enabling the *log_connections* setting causes each attempted connection to the server to be logged, along with successful completion of client authentication. This parameter cannot be changed after the session starts. Default value for *log_connections* flag is off.

## Rationale

PostgreSQL does not log attempted connections by default. Enabling the *log_connections* setting will create log entries for each attempted connection as well as successful completion of client authentication which can be useful in troubleshooting issues and to determine any unusual connection attempts to the server.

## Remediation

### From Console:

1. Login to GCP console and navigate to [Cloud SQL Instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/).
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance for which the database flag needs to be enabled.
3. Click **EDIT**.
4. Scroll down to the *Flags* section.
5. Click **ADD FLAG**, choose the `log_connections` from the drop-down menu, and set its to `on`.
6. Click **SAVE**.
7. Confirm the changes under Flags on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. List all Cloud SQL database instances using the following command

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```
2. Configure the log_connections database flag for every Cloud SQL PostgreSQL database instance using the below command

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch INSTANCE_NAME --database-flags log_connections=on
```

**Note**
- This command will overwrite all previously set database flags. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance. Any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
- Configuring the above flag does not require **restarting** the Cloud PostgreSQL instance.