## Description

It is recommended to set `skip_show_database` database flag for Cloud SQL MySQL instance to `on`.

`skip_show_database` database flag prevents people from using the SHOW DATABASES statement if they do not have the SHOW DATABASES privilege. This can improve security if you have concerns about users being able to see databases belonging to other users. Its effect depends on the SHOW DATABASES privilege: If the variable value is ON, the SHOW DATABASES statement is permitted only to users who have the SHOW DATABASES privilege, and the statement displays all database names. If the value is OFF, SHOW DATABASES is permitted to all users, but displays the names of only those databases for which the user has the SHOW DATABASES or other privilege. This recommendation is applicable to Mysql database instances.

## Remediation

### From Console

1. Go to the Cloud SQL Instances page in the Google Cloud Console by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances).
2. Select the Mysql instance for which you want to enable to database flag.
3. Click `Edit`.
4. Scroll down to the `Flags` section.
5. To set a flag that has not been set on the instance before, click `Add a Database Flag`, choose the flag `skip_show_database` from the drop-down menu, and set its value to on.
6. Click `Save` to save your changes.
7. Confirm your changes under `Flags` on the Overview page.

### From Command Line

1. List all Cloud SQL database Instances

```bash
gcloud sql instances list
```

2. Configure the `skip_show_database` database flag for every Cloud SQL MySQL database instance using the below command

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch INSTANCE_NAME --database-flags skip_show_database=on
```

**Note** This command will overwrite all database flags previously set. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags you want set on the instance; any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
