## Description

In order to prevent unnecessary project ownership assignments to users/service-accounts and further misuses of projects and resources, all `roles/Owner` assignments should be monitored.
Members (users/Service-Accounts) with a role assignment to primitive role `roles/Owner` are project owners.
The project owner has all the privileges on the project the role belongs to. These are summarized below:
- All viewer permissions on all GCP Services within the project
- Permissions for actions that modify the state of all GCP services within the project
- Manage roles and permissions for a project and all resources within the project
- Set up billing for a project
Granting the owner role to a member (user/Service-Account) will allow that member to modify the Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy. Therefore,grant the owner role only if the member has a legitimate purpose to manage the IAM policy. This is because the project IAM policy contains sensitive access control data. Having a minimal set of users allowed to manage IAM policy will simplify any auditing that may be necessary.

## Remediation

### From Console
**Create the prescribed log metric:**

1. Go to `Logging/Logs-based Metrics` by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics) and click "CREATE METRIC".
2. Click the down arrow symbol on the `Filter Bar` at the rightmost corner and select `Convert to Advanced Filter`.
3. Clear any text and add:

```bash
(protoPayload.serviceName="cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com")
AND (ProjectOwnership OR projectOwnerInvitee)
OR (protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.action="REMOVE"
AND protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.role="roles/owner") OR (protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.action="ADD"
AND protoPayload.serviceData.policyDelta.bindingDeltas.role="roles/owner")
```

4. Click `Submit Filter`. The logs display based on the filter text entered by the user.
5. In the `Metric Editor` menu on the right, fill out the name field. Set `Units` to `1`(default) and the `Type` to `Counter`. This ensures that the log metric counts the number of log entries matching the advanced logs query.
6. Click `Create Metric`.

#### Create the display prescribed Alert Policy:

1. Identify the newly created metric under the section `User-defined Metrics` at [https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/metrics).
2. Click the 3-dot icon in the rightmost column for the desired metric and select `Create alert from Metric`. A new page opens.
3. Fill out the alert policy configuration and click `Save`. Choose the alerting threshold and configuration that makes sense for the user's organization. For example, a threshold of zero(0) for the most recent value will ensure that a notification is triggered for every owner change in the project:

```bash
Set `Aggregator` to `Count`
Set `Configuration`:
- Condition: above
- Threshold: 0
- For: most recent value
```

4. Configure the desired notifications channels in the section `Notifications`.
5. Name the policy and click `Save`.

### From Command Line

Create a prescribed Log Metric:
   - Use the command: gcloud beta logging metrics create.
   - Reference for Command Usage: [https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/beta/logging/metrics/create](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/beta/logging/metrics/create).

Create a prescribed Alert Policy:
   - Use the command: gcloud alpha monitoring policies create.
   - Reference for Command Usage: [https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/alpha/monitoring/policies/create](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/alpha/monitoring/policies/create).
