## Description

The `log_min_messages` flag defines the minimum message severity level that is considered as an error statement. Messages for error statements are logged with the SQL statement. Valid values include `DEBUG5`, `DEBUG4`, `DEBUG3`, `DEBUG2`, `DEBUG1`, `INFO`, `NOTICE`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `LOG`, `FATAL`, and `PANIC`. Each severity level includes the subsequent levels mentioned above. ERROR is considered the best practice setting. Changes should only be made in accordance with the organization's logging policy.

Auditing helps in troubleshooting operational problems and also permits forensic analysis. If `log_min_messages` is not set to the correct value, messages may not be classified as error messages appropriately. An organization will need to decide their own threshold for logging `log_min_messages` flag.

This recommendation is applicable to PostgreSQL database instances.

## Remediation

### From Console

1. Go to the Cloud SQL Instances page in the Google Cloud Console by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances)
2. Select the PostgreSQL instance for which you want to enable the database flag.
3. Click `Edit`.
4. Scroll down to the `Flags` section.
5. To set a flag that has not been set on the instance before, click `Add a Database Flag`, choose the flag `log_min_messages` from the drop-down menu and set
appropriate value
6. Click `Save` to save the changes.
7. Confirm the changes under `Flags` on the Overview page.

### From Command Line:

1. Configure the `log_min_messages` database flag for every Cloud SQL PosgreSQL database instance using the below command.

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch <INSTANCE_NAME> --database-flags log_min_messages=<DEBUG5|DEBUG4|DEBUG3|DEBUG2|DEBUG1|INFO|NOTICE|WARNING|ERROR|LOG|FATAL|PANIC>
```

**Note**: This command will overwrite all database flags previously set. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance; any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").

### Default Value

By default `log_min_messages` is `ERROR`.