## Description

A contained database includes all database settings and metadata required to define the database and has no configuration dependencies on the instance of the Database Engine where the database is installed. Users can connect to the database without authenticating a login at the Database Engine level. Isolating the database from the Database Engine makes it possible to easily move the database to another instance of SQL Server. Contained databases have some unique threats that should be understood and mitigated by SQL Server Database Engine administrators. Most of the threats are related to the USER WITH PASSWORD authentication process, which moves the authentication boundary from the Database Engine level to the database level, hence this is recommended not to enable this flag. This recommendation is applicable to SQL Server database instances.

When contained databases are enabled, database users with the ALTER ANY USER permission, such as members of the db_owner and db_accessadmin database roles, can grant access to databases and by doing so, grant access to the instance of SQL Server. This means that control over access to the server is no longer limited to members of the sysadmin and securityadmin fixed server role, and logins with the server level CONTROL SERVER and ALTER ANY LOGIN permission.

It is recommended to set `contained database authentication` database flag for Cloud SQL on the SQL Server instance to `off`.

## Remediation

### From Google Cloud Console

1. Go to the Cloud SQL Instances page in the Google Cloud Console by visiting [https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances](https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances).
2. Select the SQL Server instance for which you want to enable to database flag.
3. Click `Edit`.
4. Scroll down to the `Flags` section.
5. If the flag `contained database authentication` is present and its value is set to 'on', then change it to 'off'.
6. Click `Save`.
7. Confirm the changes under `Flags` on the Overview page.

### From Google Cloud CLI

1. If any Cloud SQL for SQL Server instance has the database flag `contained database authentication` set to 'on', then change it to 'off' using the below command:

```bash
gcloud sql instances patch <INSTANCE_NAME> --database-flags "contained database authentication=off"
```

**Note**:
This command will overwrite all database flags previously set. To keep those and add new ones, include the values for all flags to be set on the instance; any flag not specifically included is set to its default value. For flags that do not take a value, specify the flag name followed by an equals sign ("=").
